# Detection_Discriminating_Behavioral_EventLog

Companies are always aiming to improve their processes to provide goods and services of higher quality and at lower costs. Business Process Simulation (BPS) refers to techniques for the simulation of business processes behaviours and allows analysts to compare alternative scenarios and contribute to the analysis and improvement of  business processes.
The main idea is to repeat simulations of processes in accordance with a model to evaluate how processes are supposedly carried out. The simulations' results are then used to compute performance measures with the aim to pinpoint the aspects that are more critical and, thus, require improvements in certain areas.  \newline
The behaviour of business processes is registered in event logs by process-aware information systems. An event log is a collection of a temporarily ordered linear sequence of events. Each recorded event represents the executions of activity in a specific workflow instance. 
Process mining (PM) allows the extraction of knowledge from the event logs and this information will be used as input for the construction of a BPS model. For instance, the several discovery algorithms of PM allow mining a process model that captures the behaviours seen in the log. Hence, the simulation model is defined by the knowledge extracted from event log i.e. the process model and the necessary information to manage the time perspective, the control-flow perspective and the resource perspective. 
Simulation can also be employed to analyse the eventual process outcome under different conditions (e.g. resource amount, arrival rates, alternative process executions). Moreover, simulation enables us to understand if a process should be improved and which are the aspects of the business process that require a change. In order to do that, it is pivotal to start with a good simulation of the current process. Then, it is possible to modify the simulation model to create several different scenarios. In this way the simulation represents reality in a plausible way. 
An inaccurate simulation model produces wrong insights, which can trigger operational changes to the process that do not lead to actual improvements. Hence, it is important to verify if the process simulation represents reality effectively. Here, we employ an approach based on comparing the real event log with the log obtained via simulation. This approach allows us to improve and fix the model in order to make it close to reality as much as possible.
Given two event logs L1 and L2 the technique leverages on decision trees to classify whether a trace belongs to L1 or L2. Each trace is converted into a feature vector to build a decision tree classifier with class values L1 and L2 if the trace belongs to L1 or L2 respectively. If the event logs are similar, it will not be possible to build a decision tree to discriminate whatever a trace is of one or the other log.
If it is possible to discriminate some traces of one log from the other, it means that the two logs exhibit behavior that differs. The conditions at the nodes of the decision tree indicate what characteristics are typical of L1 and L2, which namely allows discriminating whether a trace would be of L1 or L2. Those conditions can be used by process analysts to alter the simulation model to be a better reflection of reality. 
The features to encode the traces as a vector are of three main types: Basic, Declare, Temporal. The Basic feature defines the directly-follow relation between two activities and the presence or the absence of an activity.
Instead, the Declare feature represents behaviours of the event logs which are more complex than the Basic. Declare features represent constraints that specify the conditions under which activities can or cannot be executed.
Finally, the Temporal feature represents many properties: the time spent for each activity, the total time spent to complete the process or to validate a constraint. 
As a matter of fact, the technique is more general and can be used with two arbitrary logs derived from the same information system but in different periods of time. For example a company can analyse its current process model with respect to the last year to search for  e.g. concept drifts.
